<!--

DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE

Edit exercises_w_sol/collections/2darrays.md, and run
make exercises/collections/2darrays.md
instead.
-->

---
tags:
  - datatypes/collections
---

# Two-Dimensional Arrays

[Solutions for those exercises.](./exercises_w_sol/collections/2darrays)

## Multiple Choices

#. What is the correct way of creating a 2-dimensional rectangular array of `int` with 5 rows and 2 columns named `myMatrix`?

    - [ ] `int[][] myMatrix = new int[5][2];`
    - [ ] `int[][] myMatrix = new int[2][5];`
    - [ ] `int[,] myMatrix = new int[2, 5];`
    - [ ] `int[,] myMatrix = new int[5, 2];`

#. Consider the following code:

    ```
    int[,] grades = {{10, 20}, {30, 40}};
    Console.WriteLine(grades[1,0]);
    ```

    What will it display?
    
    - [ ] Nothing
    - [ ] 10
    - [ ] 20
    - [ ] grades
    - [ ] 30
    - [ ] grades[1,0]
    - [ ] 40


## Exercises

#. Write a statement that creates a 2-dimensional rectangular array of `int` with 5 rows and 3 columns.


#. Write a statement that creates a 2-dimensional jagged array of `int` with 2 rows. The first row should contain an array containing 1, the second row should contain an array containing 2, 3.



#. Write a declaration for a 2-dimensional rectangular array of `int` containing the following data:

    | | | | 
    | --- | --- | --- | 
    | 10  | 20  | 30  |
    | 40  | 50  | 60  | 
    | 70  | 80  | 90  | 
    

#. Write a declaration for a 2-dimensional ragged array of `int` containing the following data:

    | | | | 
    | --- | --- | --- | 
    | 10  | 20  | 
    | 40  |
    | 70  | 80  | 90  | 
    


#. Suppose we have a 2-dimensional rectangular array named `temp` that has been declared and initialized. How can we know the number of rows in this array?
    
    
#. Suppose we have a 2-dimensional rectangular array named `temp` that has been declared and initialized. How can we know the number of elements in this array?
    

#. Write a program that display "Every row contains its own index" if the 2-dimensional rectangular array of `int` `matrix` is such that its first row contains the value 0, its second row contains the value 1, etc.


#. Write a program that display the average of each row of a 2-dimensional jagged array of `int` `jArray`.


#. Write a program that display the sum of the values on the diagonal of a 2-dimensional rectangular array of `int` `jArray`.


## Problem: Toward a Crossword Puzzle Solver

The goal of this problem is to work toward the creation of a program that solve crossword puzzles.
We will reason in the simple case where the "word" is actually simply a pair of number (so, "1, 2" or "8, 101").

In the following, assume given two `int` variables `first` and `second`, as well as a 2-dimensional rectangular array `values`.

#. Write a program that display "pair found" if `first` and `second` occur next to each other in the same row.
#. Edit your program so that "pair found" is displayed also if `second` occurs before `first` in the same row.
#. Edit your program so that "pair found" is displayed also if `first` occurs "above" `second` (that is, if they are next to each other in the same column),
#. Edit your program so that "pair found" is displayed also if `second` occurs "above" `first`,
#. Edit your program so that "pair found" is displayed also if `first` and `second` occur diagonally,
#. Edit your program so that "pair found" is displayed also if `first` and `first` occur anti-diagonally.

Test your program thoroughly, possibly bundling it in a `static` class to ease testing and debugging.


