<!--

DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE

Edit exercises_w_sol/oop/operations.md, and run
make exercises/oop/operations.md
instead.
-->

---
tags:
  - oop/operations
aliases:
  - OOP - Operations
  - Object Oriented Programming - Operations
---

## Warm-up Exercises

#. Consider the following partial class definition:
```cs
public class Book
{
	private string title;
	private string author;
	private string publisher;
	private int copiesSold;
}
```
1. Write a statement that would create a `Book` object.
2. Write a "getter" and a "setter" for the `title` attribute.
3. Write a constructor for the `Book` class taking at least one argument.


## Questions

#. How do you make reference to a public property Name outside of the class. 
  - [ ] *Name
  - [ ] +Name
  - [ ] .Name
  - [ ] neither of these

#. In C#, you should think of the class’s properties as the class’s attributes.

  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No

#. The property notation allows the client to directly manipulate the private instance variable.

  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No

#. Consider the code:
```cs
public void SetName(string tempAccountName)
{
name = tempAccountName; // store the account name
}
```
Which of the following statements is false?
- [ ] The first line of each method declaration is the method header.
- [ ] The method’s return type specifies the type of data the method returns to its caller
after performing its task.
- [ ] The return type void indicates that when SetName() completes its task, it does not
return any information to its calling method.
- [ ] All methods require at least one parameter to provide data to perform tasks.

#. A return type of _____ is specified for a method that does not return a value.
- [ ] int
- [ ] double
- [ ] void
- [ ] None of the above.

#. Methods are called by writing the name of the method followed by _____ enclosed in parentheses.
- [ ] a condition
- [ ] argument(s)
- [ ] a counter
- [ ] None of the above.

#. The parameter list in the method header and the arguments in the method call must agree in:
- [ ] Number
- [ ] Type
- [ ] Order
- [ ] All of the above

#. Suppose method1 is declared as
```cs
public void method1(int a, float b, string c)
```
Which of the following methods does not overload method1?
- [ ] void method2(int a, float b, char c)
- [ ] int method1(float a, int b, string c)
- [ ] float method1(int a, float b)
- [ ] string method1(string a, float b, int c)

#. Write a get method for an instance variable named `total` of type **int**.


#. Write a getter for an attribute of type **string** named `myName`.


#. Write a setter for an attribute of type **int** named `myAge`.


#. Assuming name is a **string** instance variable, there is a problem with the following setter. Fix it.
```cs
public int SetName1(string var){
	name = var;
}
```


#. Is it possible to have more than one constructor defined for a class? If yes, how can C# know which one is called?


#. What is the name of a constructor method? What is the return type of a constructor?


#. Write a constructor for a `Soda` class with one **string** attribute called `name`.


#. What is the "default" constructor? Do we always have the possibility of using it?


#. Why would one want to define a constructor for a class?



## Problems
